**Thermodynamics** is the branch of physics and engineering that focuses on converting energy, often in the form of heat and work. It describes how thermal energy is converted to and from other forms of energy and also to work.

When chemical reactions take place, some energy is often released as thermal energy.

An **equilibrium** is where certain properties like pressure, volume, or temperature, remain the same across the system. An example of something reaching equilibrium is when you leave a soda out in the sun too long and the soda heats to air temperature.

**Zeroth law of thermodynamics** – If two thermodynamic systems are each in thermal equilibrium with a third, then they are in thermal equilibrium with each other.

If you leave hot soup out on a cold day, the soup will cool to room temperature, but the soup will also have warmed the room by a tiny bit. The amount of total energy will therefor have not changed.

**First law of thermodynamics** – Energy can neither be created nor destroyed. It can only change forms.

The higher that you climb a ladder, the more **Gravitational Potential Energy** that you have, that is, stored energy the higher that you are.

**Heat Engine** - An engine that converts heat into other forms of energy

**Second law of thermodynamics** - as energy is tranferred or transformed, mor and more of it, is wasted. In a radiator for example, we can convert electricity into heat energy. But afterwards, we can't create electricity by heating up a wire. Most combution engines in our cars are 20% thermally efficient, meaning 20% of the heat generated by the engine is converted to working energy.

**Entropy** is the measure of a system's thermal energy per unit temperature that's unavailable for doing work. Usually, it is discribed as the measure of disorder (randomness) of a system.

Entropy predicts that the universe will only become heat energy. This prediction is known as the **heat death of the universe**.

